doc/tutorials/gene_network.rst, before:

Assembling everything known about a particular gene
===================================================

Assume you are interested in collecting all mechanisms that a particular gene
is involved in. Using INDRA, it is possible to collect everything curated
about the gene in pathway databases and then read all the accessible literature
discussing the gene of interest. This knowledge is aggregated as a set of
INDRA Statements which can then be assembled into several different model
and network formats and possibly shared online.

For the sake of this example, assume that the gene of interest is BRCA1.

It is important to use the standard HGNC gene symbol of the gene throughout the
example (this information is available on http://www.genenames.org/ or
http://www.uniprot.org/) - abritrary synonyms will not work!

Collect mechanisms from PathwayCommons and the BEL Large Corpus
---------------------------------------------------------------

We first collect Statements from the PathwayCommons database via INDRA's
BioPAX API and then collect Statements from the BEL Large Corpus via INDRA's
BEL API.

.. code-block:: python

    from indra.tools.gene_network import GeneNetwork

    gn = GeneNetwork(['BRCA1'])
    biopax_stmts = gn.get_biopax_stmts()
    bel_stmts = gn.get_bel_stmts()

at this point `biopax_stmts` and `bel_stmts` are two lists of INDRA Statements.

Collect a list of publications that discuss the gene of interest
----------------------------------------------------------------

We next use INDRA's literature client to find PubMed IDs (PMIDs) that discuss
the gene of interest. To find articles that are annotated with the given gene,
INDRA first looks up the Entrez ID corresponding to the gene name and then
finds associated publications.

.. code-block:: python

    from indra import literature

    pmids = literature.pubmed_client.get_ids_for_gene('BRCA1')

The variable `pmids` now contains a list of PMIDs associated with the gene.

Get the abstracts corresponding to the publications
---------------------------------------------------

Next we use INDRA's literature client to fetch the abstracts corresponding to
the PMIDs we have just collected. The client also returns other content
types, like xml, for full text (if available). Here we cut the list of PMIDs
short to just the first 10 IDs that contain abstracts to make the processing
faster.

.. code-block:: python

    from indra import literature

    paper_contents = {}
    for pmid in pmids:
        content, content_type = literature.get_full_text(pmid, 'pmid')
        if content_type == 'abstract':
            paper_contents[pmid] = content
        if len(paper_contents) == 10:
            break

We now have a dictionary called `paper_contents` which stores the content for
each PMID we looked up. While the abstracts are in plain text format,
some content is sometimes returned as in different xml formats. To process
xml from different sources, see e.g. the
`INDRA Reach API <../modules/sources/reach/index.html#indra.sources.reach
.api.process_nxml_str>`_ or the
`INDRA Elsevier API <../modules/literature/index.html#module-indra
.literature.elsevier_client>`_.

Read the content of the publications
------------------------------------

We next run the REACH reading system on the publications using the INDRA
Rest API by using the `post` method of Python's `requests` module. The
results are returned as json data, and we will use a function called
`statements_from_json` to convert the json data into statements.

.. code-block:: python

    import requests
    from indra import literature
    from indra.sources import reach
    from indra.statements import stmts_from_json
    indra_api = 'http://api.indra.bio:8000/reach/process_text'

    literature_stmts = []
    for pmid, content in paper_contents.items():
        res = requests.post(url=indra_api, json={'text': content})

        if res.status_code == 200:
            print('Got %d statements from abstract for pmid %s' %
                (len(res.json()['statements']), pmid))
            literature_stmts += stmts_from_json(res.json()['statements'])
        else:
            print('Got status code %d for pmid %s.' % (res.status_code, pmid))
    print('Got %d statements' % len(literature_stmts))

The list `literature_stmts` now contains the results of all the statements
that were read.

To read a lot of conent at scale, you should set up reading locally on your
machine or set up reading on your cluster. To set up REACH, see more `here
<https://github.com/clulab/reach>`_ for using REACH to read content.

Combine all statements and run pre-assembly
-------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from indra.tools import assemble_corpus

    stmts = biopax_stmts + bel_stmts + literature_stmts

    stmts = assemble_corpus.map_grounding(stmts)
    stmts = assemble_corpus.map_sequence(stmts)
    stmts = assemble_corpus.run_preassembly(stmts)

At this point `stmts` contains a list of Statements collected with
`grounding <../modules/preassembler/grounding_mapper.html>`_,
sequences having been `mapped <../modules/preassembler/site_mapper.html>`_,
duplicates combined and less specific variants of statements hidden. It is
possible to run other filters on the results such as to keep only human
genes, remove Statements with ungrounded genes, or to keep only certain
types of interactions. Read more about the pre-assembly process in the
`preassembly module documentation <../modules/preassembler/index.html>`_ and
in the `github documentation
<https://github.com/sorgerlab/indra#internal-knowledge-assembly>`_

Assemble the statements into a network model
--------------------------------------------

CX Network Model
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We can assemble the statements into e.g. a CX network model:

.. code-block:: python

    from indra.assemblers.cx import CxAssembler
    from indra.databases import ndex_client

    cxa = CxAssembler(stmts)
    cx_str = cxa.make_model()

We can now upload this network to the Network Data Exchange (NDEx).

.. code-block:: python

    ndex_cred = {'user': 'myusername', 'password': 'xxx'}
    network_id = ndex_client.create_network(cx_str, ndex_cred)
    print(network_id)

IndraNet Model
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Another network model that can assembled is the IndraNet graph which is a
light-weight networkx derived object.

.. code:: python

    from indra.assemblers.indranet import IndraNetAssembler
    indranet_assembler = IndraNetAssembler(statements=stmts)
    indranet = indranet_assembler.make_model()

Since the IndraNet class is a child class of a networkx Graph, one can use
networkx's algorithms:

.. code:: python

    import networkx as nx
    path_length = nx.single_source_shortest_path(G=indranet,
                      source='BRCA1', cutoff=0)

Executable PySB Model
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An executable PySB model can be assembled with the PySB assembler:

.. code:: python

    from indra.assemblers.pysb import PysbAssembler
    pysb = PysbAssembler(stmts=stmts)
    pysb_model = pysb.make_model()

Read more about PySB models in the `PySB documentation <http://pysb.org/>`_
and look into the `natural language modeling tutorial <nl_modeling.html>`_
which uses PySB models.

Read more about all assembly output formats in the `README <https://github
.com/sorgerlab/indra#output-model-assemblers>`_ and in the `module
references <https://indra.readthedocs.io/en/latest/modules/assemblers/index
.html>`_.

Commit message:

Add code update comments in rst file

doc/tutorials/gene_network.rst, after:

Assembling everything known about a particular gene
===================================================

Assume you are interested in collecting all mechanisms that a particular gene
is involved in. Using INDRA, it is possible to collect everything curated
about the gene in pathway databases and then read all the accessible literature
discussing the gene of interest. This knowledge is aggregated as a set of
INDRA Statements which can then be assembled into several different model
and network formats and possibly shared online.

For the sake of this example, assume that the gene of interest is BRCA1.

It is important to use the standard HGNC gene symbol of the gene throughout the
example (this information is available on http://www.genenames.org/ or
http://www.uniprot.org/) - abritrary synonyms will not work!

Collect mechanisms from PathwayCommons and the BEL Large Corpus
---------------------------------------------------------------

We first collect Statements from the PathwayCommons database via INDRA's
BioPAX API and then collect Statements from the BEL Large Corpus via INDRA's
BEL API.

.. Update code in tests/test_docs_code.py:test_gene_network as well

.. code-block:: python

    from indra.tools.gene_network import GeneNetwork

    gn = GeneNetwork(['BRCA1'])
    biopax_stmts = gn.get_biopax_stmts()
    bel_stmts = gn.get_bel_stmts()

at this point `biopax_stmts` and `bel_stmts` are two lists of INDRA Statements.

Collect a list of publications that discuss the gene of interest
----------------------------------------------------------------

We next use INDRA's literature client to find PubMed IDs (PMIDs) that discuss
the gene of interest. To find articles that are annotated with the given gene,
INDRA first looks up the Entrez ID corresponding to the gene name and then
finds associated publications.

.. Update code in tests/test_docs_code.py:test_gene_network as well

.. code-block:: python

    from indra import literature

    pmids = literature.pubmed_client.get_ids_for_gene('BRCA1')

The variable `pmids` now contains a list of PMIDs associated with the gene.

Get the abstracts corresponding to the publications
---------------------------------------------------

Next we use INDRA's literature client to fetch the abstracts corresponding to
the PMIDs we have just collected. The client also returns other content
types, like xml, for full text (if available). Here we cut the list of PMIDs
short to just the first 10 IDs that contain abstracts to make the processing
faster.

.. Update code in tests/test_docs_code.py:test_gene_network as well

.. code-block:: python

    from indra import literature

    paper_contents = {}
    for pmid in pmids:
        content, content_type = literature.get_full_text(pmid, 'pmid')
        if content_type == 'abstract':
            paper_contents[pmid] = content
        if len(paper_contents) == 10:
            break

We now have a dictionary called `paper_contents` which stores the content for
each PMID we looked up. While the abstracts are in plain text format,
some content is sometimes returned as in different xml formats. To process
xml from different sources, see e.g. the
`INDRA Reach API <../modules/sources/reach/index.html#indra.sources.reach
.api.process_nxml_str>`_ or the
`INDRA Elsevier API <../modules/literature/index.html#module-indra
.literature.elsevier_client>`_.

Read the content of the publications
------------------------------------

We next run the REACH reading system on the publications using the INDRA
Rest API by using the `post` method of Python's `requests` module. The
results are returned as json data, and we will use a function called
`statements_from_json` to convert the json data into statements.

.. Update code in tests/test_docs_code.py:test_gene_network as well

.. code-block:: python

    import requests
    from indra import literature
    from indra.sources import reach
    from indra.statements import stmts_from_json
    indra_api = 'http://api.indra.bio:8000/reach/process_text'

    literature_stmts = []
    for pmid, content in paper_contents.items():
        res = requests.post(url=indra_api, json={'text': content})

        if res.status_code == 200:
            print('Got %d statements from abstract for pmid %s' %
                (len(res.json()['statements']), pmid))
            literature_stmts += stmts_from_json(res.json()['statements'])
        else:
            print('Got status code %d for pmid %s.' % (res.status_code, pmid))
    print('Got %d statements' % len(literature_stmts))

The list `literature_stmts` now contains the results of all the statements
that were read.

To read a lot of conent at scale, you should set up reading locally on your
machine or set up reading on your cluster. To set up REACH, see more `here
<https://github.com/clulab/reach>`_ for using REACH to read content.

Combine all statements and run pre-assembly
-------------------------------------------

.. Update code in tests/test_docs_code.py:test_gene_network as well

.. code-block:: python

    from indra.tools import assemble_corpus

    stmts = biopax_stmts + bel_stmts + literature_stmts

    stmts = assemble_corpus.map_grounding(stmts)
    stmts = assemble_corpus.map_sequence(stmts)
    stmts = assemble_corpus.run_preassembly(stmts)

At this point `stmts` contains a list of Statements collected with
`grounding <../modules/preassembler/grounding_mapper.html>`_,
sequences having been `mapped <../modules/preassembler/site_mapper.html>`_,
duplicates combined and less specific variants of statements hidden. It is
possible to run other filters on the results such as to keep only human
genes, remove Statements with ungrounded genes, or to keep only certain
types of interactions. Read more about the pre-assembly process in the
`preassembly module documentation <../modules/preassembler/index.html>`_ and
in the `github documentation
<https://github.com/sorgerlab/indra#internal-knowledge-assembly>`_

Assemble the statements into a network model
--------------------------------------------

CX Network Model
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We can assemble the statements into e.g. a CX network model:

.. Update code in tests/test_docs_code.py:test_gene_network as well

.. code-block:: python

    from indra.assemblers.cx import CxAssembler
    from indra.databases import ndex_client

    cxa = CxAssembler(stmts)
    cx_str = cxa.make_model()

We can now upload this network to the Network Data Exchange (NDEx).

.. Update code in tests/test_docs_code.py:test_gene_network as well

.. code-block:: python

    ndex_cred = {'user': 'myusername', 'password': 'xxx'}
    network_id = ndex_client.create_network(cx_str, ndex_cred)
    print(network_id)

IndraNet Model
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Another network model that can assembled is the IndraNet graph which is a
light-weight networkx derived object.

.. Update code in tests/test_docs_code.py:test_gene_network as well

.. code:: python

    from indra.assemblers.indranet import IndraNetAssembler
    indranet_assembler = IndraNetAssembler(statements=stmts)
    indranet = indranet_assembler.make_model()

Since the IndraNet class is a child class of a networkx Graph, one can use
networkx's algorithms:

.. Update code in tests/test_docs_code.py:test_gene_network as well

.. code:: python

    import networkx as nx
    path_length = nx.single_source_shortest_path(G=indranet,
                      source='BRCA1', cutoff=0)

Executable PySB Model
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An executable PySB model can be assembled with the PySB assembler:

.. Update code in tests/test_docs_code.py:test_gene_network as well

.. code:: python

    from indra.assemblers.pysb import PysbAssembler
    pysb = PysbAssembler(stmts=stmts)
    pysb_model = pysb.make_model()

Read more about PySB models in the `PySB documentation <http://pysb.org/>`_
and look into the `natural language modeling tutorial <nl_modeling.html>`_
which uses PySB models.

Read more about all assembly output formats in the `README <https://github
.com/sorgerlab/indra#output-model-assemblers>`_ and in the `module
references <https://indra.readthedocs.io/en/latest/modules/assemblers/index
.html>`_.
