doc/tutorials/wm_service.rst, before:

Summary
=======
These instructions allow you to have reading and assembly services running
locally during the evaluation. With this setup, CauseMos can interact with
the following endpoints:

- http://localhost:8000/reader/process_text to read text via
  eidos/sofia/cwms and get back INDRA Statements
- http://localhost:8001/action to do the following actions: submit_curation,
  reset_curation, update_beliefs, add_ontology_entry, reset_ontology,
  update_groundings.

The instructions below run each Docker container with the :code:`-d` option
which will run containers in the background. You can list running containers
with their ids using :code:`docker ps` and stop a container with

.. code-block::

    docker stop <container id>

For interactive text reading, it makes sense to do an initial test reading
before the demo so that Eidos loads the necessary resources. Subsequent
reading calls will be much faster.

Setting up the Eidos service
----------------------------
Clone the Eidos repo and cd to Docker folder

.. code-block:: sh

    git clone https://github.com/clulab/eidos.git
    cd eidos/Docker

Build the Eidos docker image

.. code-block:: sh

    docker build -f Dockerfile . -t eidos-webservice

Run the Eidos web service and expose it on port 9000

.. code-block:: sh

    docker run -id -p 9000:9000 eidos-webservice


Setting up the general INDRA service
------------------------------------
Pull the INDRA docker image from DockerHub

.. code-block:: sh

    docker pull labsyspharm/indra

Run the INDRA web service and expose it on port 8000

.. code-block:: sh

    docker run -id -p 8000:8080 --entrypoint python labsyspharm/indra \
    /sw/indra/rest_api/api.py

Setting up the live feedback service
------------------------------------
Assuming you already have the INDRA docker image, run the INDRA live
feedback service with the following parameters:

.. code-block:: sh

    docker run -v -id -p 8001:8001 --entrypoint python labsyspharm/indra \
    /sw/indra/indra/tools/live_curation.py

Using the live feedback service
-------------------------------
Below each example uses the remote service, you can replace that IP with
localhost to do the same locally. Replace :code:`<corpus-id>` with the ID of
your corpus.

Submit curations for a set of Statements in a corpus:

.. code-block::

    URL: http://54.84.114.146:8001/submit_curation
    Method: POST with JSON content header
    Input parameters: {"corpus_id": "<corpus-id>", "curations": {"38ce0c14-2c7e-4df8-bd53-3006afeaa193": 0}}
    Output: {}

Update beliefs of a corpus:

.. code-block::

    URL: http://54.84.114.146:8001/update_beliefs
    Method: POST with JSON content header
    Input parameters: {"corpus_id": "<corpus-id>"}
    Output: {"38ce0c14-2c7e-4df8-bd53-3006afeaa193": 0,
     "6f2b2d69-16af-40ea-aa03-9b3a9a1d2ac3": 0.6979166666666666,
     "727adb95-4890-4bbc-a985-fd985c355215": 0.6979166666666666}

Update meta data for a corpus:

.. code-block::

    URL: http://54.84.114.146:8001/update_metadata
    Method: POST with JSON content header
    Input parameters: {"corpus_id": "<corpus-id>",
     "meta_data": {"date": "2020-02-15",
                   "updated": "2020-02-19",
                   "tags": ["manual curation", "curated by Bob"]}}
    Output: {}

Reset all submitted curations so far:

.. code-block::

    URL: http://54.84.114.146:8001/reset_curation
    Method: POST with JSON content header
    Input parameters: {}
    Output: {}

Add a new ontology entry:

.. code-block::

    URL: http://54.84.114.146:8001/add_ontology_entry
    Method: POST with JSON content header
    Input parameters: {"entry": "UN/animals/dog", "examples": ["dog", "canine", "puppy"]}
    Output: {}

Reset all customizations to the ontology so far:

.. code-block::

    URL: http://54.84.114.146:8001/reset_ontology
    Method: POST with JSON content header
    Input parameters: {}
    Output: {}

Update groundings and re-assemble corpus based on current ontology:

.. code-block::

    URL: http://54.84.114.146:8001/update_groundings
    Method: POST with JSON content header
    Input parameters: {"corpus_id": "1"}
    Output: [{"type": "Influence", ...}] (INDRA Statements JSON)

Commit message:

Update live curation service instructions

doc/tutorials/wm_service.rst, after:

Summary
=======
These instructions allow you to have reading and assembly services running
locally during the evaluation. With this setup, CauseMos can interact with
the following endpoints:

- http://localhost:8000/reader/process_text to read text via
  eidos/sofia/cwms and get back INDRA Statements
- http://localhost:8001/action to do the following actions: submit_curation,
  reset_curation, update_beliefs, add_ontology_entry, reset_ontology,
  update_groundings.

The instructions below run each Docker container with the :code:`-d` option
which will run containers in the background. You can list running containers
with their ids using :code:`docker ps` and stop a container with

.. code-block::

    docker stop <container id>

For interactive text reading, it makes sense to do an initial test reading
before the demo so that Eidos loads the necessary resources. Subsequent
reading calls will be much faster.

Setting up the Eidos service
----------------------------
Clone the Eidos repo and cd to Docker folder

.. code-block:: sh

    git clone https://github.com/clulab/eidos.git
    cd eidos/Docker

Build the Eidos docker image

.. code-block:: sh

    docker build -f Dockerfile . -t eidos-webservice

Run the Eidos web service and expose it on port 9000

.. code-block:: sh

    docker run -id -p 9000:9000 eidos-webservice


Setting up the general INDRA service
------------------------------------
Pull the INDRA docker image from DockerHub

.. code-block:: sh

    docker pull labsyspharm/indra

Run the INDRA web service and expose it on port 8000

.. code-block:: sh

    docker run -id -p 8000:8080 --entrypoint python labsyspharm/indra \
    /sw/indra/rest_api/api.py

Setting up the live feedback service
------------------------------------
Assuming you already have the INDRA docker image, run the INDRA live
feedback service with the following parameters:

.. code-block:: sh

    docker run -v -id -p 8001:8001 --env-file docker_variables --entrypoint \
    python labsyspharm/indra /sw/indra/indra/tools/live_curation.py

Here we use the tag :code:`--env-file` to provide a file containing
environment variables to the docker. In this case, we need to provide
:code:`AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and :code:`AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` to allow the
curation service to access corpora on S3. The file content should look like
this:

.. code-block:: sh

    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<aws_access_key_id>
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<aws_secret_access_key>

Replace :code:`<aws_access_key_id>` and :code:`<aws_secret_access_key>` with
your aws access and secret keys.

Using the live feedback service
-------------------------------
Below each example uses the remote service, you can replace that IP with
localhost to do the same locally. Replace :code:`<corpus-id>` with the ID of
your corpus.

Submit curations for a set of Statements in a corpus:

.. code-block::

    URL: http://54.84.114.146:8001/submit_curation
    Method: POST with JSON content header
    Input parameters: {"corpus_id": "<corpus-id>", "curations": {"38ce0c14-2c7e-4df8-bd53-3006afeaa193": 0}}
    Output: {}

Update beliefs of a corpus:

.. code-block::

    URL: http://54.84.114.146:8001/update_beliefs
    Method: POST with JSON content header
    Input parameters: {"corpus_id": "<corpus-id>"}
    Output: {"38ce0c14-2c7e-4df8-bd53-3006afeaa193": 0,
     "6f2b2d69-16af-40ea-aa03-9b3a9a1d2ac3": 0.6979166666666666,
     "727adb95-4890-4bbc-a985-fd985c355215": 0.6979166666666666}

Update meta data for a corpus:

.. code-block::

    URL: http://54.84.114.146:8001/update_metadata
    Method: POST with JSON content header
    Input parameters: {"corpus_id": "<corpus-id>",
     "meta_data": {"date": "2020-02-15",
                   "updated": "2020-02-19",
                   "tags": ["manual curation", "curated by Bob"]}}
    Output: {}

Reset all submitted curations so far:

.. code-block::

    URL: http://54.84.114.146:8001/reset_curation
    Method: POST with JSON content header
    Input parameters: {}
    Output: {}

Add a new ontology entry:

.. code-block::

    URL: http://54.84.114.146:8001/add_ontology_entry
    Method: POST with JSON content header
    Input parameters: {"entry": "UN/animals/dog", "examples": ["dog", "canine", "puppy"]}
    Output: {}

Reset all customizations to the ontology so far:

.. code-block::

    URL: http://54.84.114.146:8001/reset_ontology
    Method: POST with JSON content header
    Input parameters: {}
    Output: {}

Update groundings and re-assemble corpus based on current ontology:

.. code-block::

    URL: http://54.84.114.146:8001/update_groundings
    Method: POST with JSON content header
    Input parameters: {"corpus_id": "1"}
    Output: [{"type": "Influence", ...}] (INDRA Statements JSON)
